[MUSIC]
Python, you can define functions in Python
like you can in basically every high level
language.
Now we talked about functions
a little bit with Arduino too.
We didn't use them a whole lot,
but we talked about them and
how to define them and how to use them.
You can do the same thing in Python and
functions can be very useful.
So, a function is really just
a sequence of instructions
that are associated with
some function name.
So, you make a sequence
of instructions and
you put a name on top of them,
that's the function name.
And then you can invoke that
function using that name later on.
A function in Python starts with a def,
to define the function, and then
it's followed by the name of the function,
open, close parentheses, and a colon.
That's always what
the first line looks like.
So, here we've got an example of
the beginning of the function,
let's say def test, I'll call my
function test, put the colon there.
And then after that I have my code inside
my function, print('A test function'),
that's the whole function.
And then later on,
that's the definition of my function.
And then later on I type test(), and it
will, I type type test(), hit Return, and
it will actually execute my function,
printing a test function,
which is what I told it to do.
So, that's basically how
you define a function.
Now a few things about
defining these functions.
One thing to note is that,
so here's my function.
That's my function definition,
every function has to have a definition
before you can invoke it and call it.
Inside a function,
all the instructions are indented,
and this is really important.
If you don't do proper indentation
Python will not understand the code,
it will not run, okay?
So that notice of that word print,
that print statement is indented
after the def, all right.
Since it's indented the interpreter knows,
oh, this print statement
is part of this function.
And if it were indented, if it were
indented the same amount as the word def.
So warrant indented within the def.
Then it would think, oh,
this must not be part of the function.
The function definition must be finished,
and now I'm moving on to other code.
But because I've indented it,
it knows, oh,
this is within the function definition,
that's really important.
Indentation is one thing about Python
which, on the one hand, is a pain.
Because in C you don't need indentation,
You can write the whole program on
one gigantic line of nasty looking
line of code and it'll work.
Now it's a terrible way to write code,
but it'll work.
Where Python, they force you to indent.
Now indentation as I've often taught
in class as say in C classes,
indentation is important,
you should do it as a programmer to make
your code easier to read and so forth.
But C doesn't force it,
doesn't require it.
Python requires it, so Python is forcing
the programmer to do the right thing.
Indentation's a good idea,
Python just forces it.
So IDLE will do this automatically, which
means that once you type in the def and
the colon and hit return,
the next line will be indented.
If you're doing this interactively,
it will be indented and
it'll keep doing that.
And when you actually get
to the end of the function,
you don't want it to be indented.
So you'd hit return and
then hit delete to unindent it and
then you keep writing your code.
If you were doing this in IDLE,
that's what you'd do.
So, once you define the function, you call
the function, invoke the function, or
call the function.
The way you call the function,
is you type the name of the function,
followed by the parenthesis after it.
So, with test, you would say test,
open paren, closed paren.
Now, note that you can have
arguments inside those parenthesis,
we'll talk about that in
the next set of slides.
But that is how you would invoke
a function, give it a function name plus
the open parenthesis close parenthesis and
hit Enter then it will execute function.
[MUSIC]